[Music]
the human body
is an incredibly intricate and complex
system
did you know that there are more than
300 million capillaries in your lungs
if you stretch them from end to end they
will reach the distance
that is equal to the width of the us
doesn't this sound
amazing don't forget to subscribe
because today we're sharing 99
incredible facts about your body that
will amuse you
the only part of your body that has no
blood supply is the cornea of your eye
it receives oxygen directly from the air
your brain has a memory capacity which
is the equivalent of more than four
terabytes on a hard drive
it seems computers will never match the
human mind
a newborn child can breathe and swallow
at the same time for up to seven
months your skull is made up of
29 different bones
nerve impulses sent from your brain move
at a speed of 274 kilometers per hour
this is the speed of a high speed train
a single human brain generates more
electrical impulses in a day
than all the telephones of the world
combined i can't imagine how many
impulses it generates in a year
the average human body contains enough
sulfur
to kill all the fleas on the average dog
enough
carbon to make 900 pencils enough
potassium to fire a toy cannon
enough fat to make seven bars of soap
and enough water
to fill a 50 liter barrel a 50 liter
barrel
the human heart pumps 182 million liters
of blood during the average lifetime
50 000 cells in your body died and were
replaced by new ones while you were
reading this sentence
the human embryo acquires fingerprints
within three months of conception
women's heart beat faster than men's
a man named charles osborne continuously
hiccuped for 68 years
scientists who've studied his case have
estimated that he hiccup 24
000 times per day or some 595 million
680 thousand times over his lifetime
right-handed people live on average nine
years longer than left-handed people
about two-thirds of people tilt their
head to the right when kissing
what about you the average person
forgets
ninety percent of their dreams it's too
bad because we spend about one third of
our life sleeping
the total length of all the blood
vessels in your body is about
100 000 kilometers
on average a person's respiration rate
is one-third higher in spring
than an autumn by the end of a person's
life
they can recall on average around 150
trillion pieces of
information we lose 80 percent of our
body heat from the head
cold out you need to wear a hat
when you blush your stomach also turns
red
i wish i could see it a feeling of
thirst occurs when water loss is equal
to one percent of your body weight
the loss of more than five percent can
cause fainting
and more than 10 can cause death from
dehydration
this is why you should drink at least 2
liters of water a day
[Music]
at least 700 enzymes are active in the
human body
human beings are the only living things
which sleep on their backs
the average four-year-old child asks 450
questions a day
i guess most of them start with why
not only human beings but also koalas
have unique fingerprints
[Music]
only one percent of the bacteria can
result in the human body becoming ill
everyone alive on earth could
comfortably be placed into a cube with
sides 1000 meters long
the scientific name for the belly button
is the umbilicus
teeth are only part of the human body
which cannot heal themselves
on average a person needs seven minutes
to fall asleep
right-handed people chew most of their
food on the right side of their mouth
whereas left-handed people do so on the
left
only seven percent of people are
left-handed
[Music]
the fragrance of apples and bananas can
help a person to lose weight
if allowed to grow for their whole
lifetime the length of someone's hair
would be about 725 kilometers
just wow out of all the people who can
move their ears
only one third of them are able to move
just one ear during their lifetime a
person will on average
accidentally swallow eight small spiders
the total weight of the bacteria in your
body is two kilograms
ninety-nine percent of the calcium
contained in your body is in one's teeth
your lips are hundreds of times more
sensitive than the tips of your fingers
a kiss increases your pulse to 100 beats
per minute or more
[Music]
the total strength of masticatory
muscles on one side of your jaw
is equal to 195 kilograms
you pass on 278 different types of
bacteria to another person when you kiss
them
fortunately 95 of them are not harmful
parthenophobia is a fear of virgins
if you collected all the iron contained
in the human body
you would get just a small cog big
enough only for use in your watch
there are more than 100 different
viruses which cause a cold
if you kiss another person for a certain
amount of time
this is much more effective in terms of
hygiene than using chewing gum
as it normalizes the level of acidity in
your oral cavities
[Music]
you can lose 150 calories per day if you
bang your head against the wall
well we don't recommend doing this this
is just an interesting fact
human beings are the only animals which
can draw straight lines
human skin is completely replaced about
1 000 times during a person's lifetime
a person who smokes a pack of cigarettes
a day is doing the equivalent of
drinking half a cup of tar a year
women blink about two times less often
than men
[Music]
the structure of your body contains only
four minerals
appetite aragonite calcite
and cristobalite a passionate kiss
causes the same chemical reaction in the
brain that skydiving
and firing a gun do
men are officially classified as dwarves
if their height is below 1.3 meters
whereas for women the measure is 1.2
meters
fingernails grow at about four times
faster than your toenails
[Music]
people with blue eyes are more sensitive
to pain than others
nerve impulses in the human body move at
about 90 meters per second
100 000 chemical reactions occur in the
human brain
every second everyone has dimples on
their lower back
but on some people they are more
pronounced than on others
they appear where the pelvis joins with
the sacrum so their appearance makes
sense
[Music]
if one identical twin lacks a certain
tooth the other twin will not have that
tooth either
the surface area of your lungs is
approximately equal to the area of a
tennis court
during a lifetime we spend about two
weeks kissing
the facial hair of a blonde haired man
grows faster than that of a man with
dark hair
leukocytes in the human body live for
two to four days
and erythrocytes for three to four
months
the strongest muscle in your body is
your tongue
the human heart is approximately equal
to the size of that of a person's fist
an adult's heart weighs 220 to 260 grams
at birth there are 14 billion cells in
the human brain
this number does not increase throughout
a person's lifetime
after 25 years the number of cells falls
by 100
000 every day about 70 cells die in the
minute it takes you to read a page in a
book
after 40 years the decline of the brain
accelerates sharply
and after 50 years neurons that is nerve
cells
shrink in the brain get smaller
at birth a child's body is made up of
around 300 bones
but an adult has just 206.
during a person's lifetime the small
intestine is about 2.5 meters
after they die the muscle and the walls
of their intestine relax
and its length increases to 6 meters
your right lung can take in more air
than your left
an adult person performs around 23 000
inhalations in exhalations a day
the smallest cells in a man's body are
sperm cells
there are about forty thousand bacteria
in your mouth
it's time to kiss someone
[Music]
each of us has around two thousand taste
buds
the human eye can distinguish 10 million
different colors
the chemical compound in the body which
causes feelings of
ecstasy phenylethylamine is also
contained in chocolate
your heart pumps blood at such pressure
that it would be able to raise blood up
to the fourth floor of a building
a person burns more calories when they
sleep than when they watch
tv children grow faster in the spring
just like grass every year more than 2
million left-handed people die because
of mistakes they make when using
machines designed for right-handed
people
it turns out that one man in every 300
is capable of satisfying themselves
orally
[Music]
you use 17 muscles when you smile and 43
when you frown
by the age of 60 most people lose half
of their taste buds
the rate at which a person's hair grows
doubles during an
airplane flight one percent of people
can see
infrared light and one percent can see
ultraviolet radiation
if you were locked in a completely
sealed room you would not die
due to a lack of air but from carbon
dioxide poisoning
statistically only one person out of two
billion reaches the
age of 116 years old
on average a person says 4 800 words
in 24 hours
the retinas inside the eye cover about
650 square millimeters
and contain 137 million light-sensitive
cells
130 million are for black and white
vision
and 7 million are for helping you see in
color
our eyes remain the same size as they
were at birth
but our nose and ears never stop growing
in the morning you are about eight
millimeters taller than in the evening
the muscles which help your eyes to
focus complete about 100 000 movements a
day
in order to make your leg muscles do the
same amount of movements
you would need to walk 80 kilometers
a cough is an explosive charge of air
which moves at a speed of 60 miles per
hour
according to german researchers the risk
of having a heart attack is higher on
monday than on any other day of the week
are about five times stronger than steel
it is impossible to sneeze with your
eyes open
ingrown toenails are hereditary
a person would die quicker from a total
lack of sleep than from hunger
death would occur after 10 days without
sleep
whereas from hunger it would take
several weeks
the average life expectancy is 2 billion
475 million 576
000 seconds during this time we
pronounce
on average around 123 million
205 750 words
and have sex 4239
times we are curious to know what fact
has impressed you the most
please share your thoughts in the
comments down below and give this video
a big thumbs up if you've enjoyed
watching it